.. _main_pagearchive:

Main Page/archive
=================

**December** 2012: **Wiki cleanup** As a early present, some guys
currently work on cleaning up the wiki. This includes structures, use of
Mediawiki technologies, creating new pages etc. If you have experiences
in the source, feel free to join in and helping us to update the docs in
the wiki!

**September** *2012*: **Major routing issue fixed!** The recently
implemented route_depth attribute by dev. tryagain is a long awaited fix
for ticket . Prior to it, routing over long distances could be
insufficient due to disregarded routes. The up-to-date navit.xml
provides a standard value. The perfect value for each vehicle profile,
however, is still to be found and further improvement needed. Share your
experience or profit from other comments on .

**July** *2012*: **Vehicle profile now working:** The scheme has been in
navit.xml for ages, but didn't work until . It allows you to set the
speeds more accurately and more differentially for each road type. If
your navit.xml is outdated, make sure to update it as there are two
additional new vehicle profiles. One for the shortest route and one to
avoid tolls.

**May**\ *2012*: **Android:** A recent change in the source for the
Android port has resulted in a flood of verbal directions. The change in
the source automatically loads all \*.bin files located in
/sdcard/navit/, irrespective of their inclusion in navit.xml. If you are
having issues, please remove all mapsets from your navit.xml. For more
info, see .
